In this lesson, we'll import the Jason file downloaded from the Disney blog into a global template
area to replace the default header of the site.
You'll also check out the design of the transparent and partially sticky header, including the negative
margin that brings the call to action button up to overlap the top bar.
We'll also explore how to use a conditional element to make the button disappear for logged in users
by the end of this video.
You'll know how to import a header template into the DV theme builder and check out some of the advanced
design used in the transparent and sticky header.
Now, if you remember from the last section when we were looking at customizing the header and the menus
under the customizer header and navigation here, we're going to totally change this header by importing
that header that we got from the blog post here.
I don't know if you went through and looked at how that blog post was created, but quite a lot of steps
can be avoided here by going ahead and importing that.
And here's a challenge for you because we did go over this process just quickly.
And one of the lessons in the last section if you want to give it a try yourself before I show you how.
Go ahead and import that JSON file that we downloaded in the last lesson into the theme builder as a
customized header and make it a global header and save those changes to your website.
If you'd like, pause the video and make that a challenge, and I'll show you in just a moment how I
would go about doing that.
OK, well, I know I have this file right here in my downloads folder, and so I'll just go into the
I don't want to make any changes in the customizer here, but where I want to go to import that header
layout as a global header is here under Divij theme builder.
Now, this theme builder is where we can manage global headers.
Global body areas and global footers.
And different theme elements that might be called templates that we can choose to place on either all
pages of the website or only particular pages.
And we're going to explore custom templates and headers and footers now in the next few sections and
lessons of this devi part of the course.
You just need to go up here to the portability icon, which is the up and down Arrow Cookie Import tab
and click to choose a file.
Go to that JSON file that you downloaded and click open and leave all the defaults right here for now
and click the import button that'll give you the green checkmark.
And now this green global header area is here and labeled default web site template.
Now, when you save changes here at the top that will place that design in and replace the header,
that is the default header that comes with Divij that we've been playing with previously.
So if you go to your website and refresh the page now you've got a nice header that has a logo, has
a call to action button is transparent so that the bottom row here, which is the main menu, is transparent.
And then there's a black line at the top here as you scroll, it turns white with the lettering turning
into black and then the contents of the page sliding underneath that fixed or sticky menu item.
So let's check out what this custom header is comprised of inside of the page editor.
So now that you have this global header here inside of the theme builder, you can go ahead and click
the little pencil icon to open up an editor, and you can see you'll have this purple bar across the
top that says Edit Global Header Layout and nothing else behind, except you can recognize these different,
different toolbars, which are the Divij visual builder.
And so now we have all these different sections now, depending on what items are overlapping, sometimes
you can't get to the gear icon for certain items.
When you're editing a header like this because you can't scroll around, you can't really see what different
parts are.
In this case, it looks like we can add and edit each of the different parts.
And so let's take a look at it here.
Also at the bottom, you'll recognize the Purple Page Editor toolbar at the bottom there.
That's where your save button is.
Same as editing a page with the visual builder.
If you go ahead and change something up here, for instance, if you're looking at, you know, this
top section, for example, looking at these section settings, if you make a change and then click
the green save checkbox here, you also have to open up the bottom page editor and click Save down here
in order to save your changes.
Or it'll give you a warning that you just in case you don't want to leave the page without saving.
You can either discard your changes and leave the page or save your changes and do that.
And so it'll rescue you if you forget to hit the save button down here at the bottom right.
But looking at that section, we're looking at the black colored section right here.
There's a background, and of course, that's a background color in straight back, straight black.
Be the Hex Code six zeroes.
And so you could see that there there's no link for the whole section.
And design wise, it's really just a standard section.
There's, you know, all the sizing is on auto.
There's not, you know, padding.
There is a zero pixel top and bottom defined in this.
And so just taking a look at it, we can close out and see what else is in here now.
Inside of this section is a row layout.
So if we look at this rollout, we can see that it's got a single column and inside of this column,
nothing really is, is there.
But inside of the column itself is a gray module.
Now that's a text module.
So these are the text settings.
Here's where you can change what that text says, you know, of course, and you can look at the design
of that.
So let's see in the content area if we click there could see this is paragraph text.
So here under design, that would be determined under text here.
And one of the default, the default font in this theme is Oswald.
It matches the the layout pack.
I should say not the TV theme, but this Oswald Font is a default layout inside of this travel agency
layout pack.
And so it's also been altered.
It's.
It's not bold, but it's a regular font weight, but it is made into all caps right here.
So if you take that away, of course, that won't be all caps.
And that's where that is now.
The text color is white.
That's the Hex Code six F's.
And then you can see the text size is a certain size for desktop.
And then if we look at the tablet view, it's well, it's one pixel smaller, and in the mobile view,
it's 16 pixels.
And so that even looks a little bit large.
Go into two lines.
It might be better down at 14.
This one looks good at 18 and this one's at 19.
That's fine.
But you can change things like letter spacing if you want to spread it out a little bit, etc. and all
those things, it's center aligned instead of being left aligned inside of the module itself.
Yeah, and the color text color here either lighter dark is actually not relevant because it actually
has a defined text color right here for that, for that text.
And so they're sizing and spacing options, which are probably just left as the default rate here,
but that's where you would edit all that stuff if you need to change anything there.
I did change the text size for the mobile device view, and so I am going to go ahead and save that
header, so I've saved my changes right there.
And that's all that we have in this top section of the header.
Now, if we go down below, there's also a second section down below here.
So for this section, the background is a color and it's determined as a transparency, in fact.
But that color is right here, and it's an RGV with a fully transparent, color defined and that's what
the background is right here.
And as you remember, as we go back here, that is a transparent header which shows the image behind
right through.
And then let's look at what else we have here for settings as far as the defaults.
We have a row, and if we look at the row, let's just look at the columns layout.
What we have is a large area and then a second column way over to the right.
Now what do you think is inside that second column?
Yes, it's the read call to action button over here.
The way you can determine that is if you look at this column layout, you can see that the different
modules there's one module in the left larger column, which is a menu.
Let's see.
Yeah, that's a menu module.
It's showing both a logo and a menu over here.
The the elements of the menu, etc. the design and the menu over there.
So we can close that up and then we can define, you know, which which menu that is.
That would be select a menu right here.
If no menu is selected, then it defaults back to just listing every page inside of the website.
And as you can see, it's also listing the uncategorized and the news.
It's listing all the blog categories there.
So we want to define a menu for this after we leave the global header editing area right here.
That would be something that would be a nice challenge for you after you close out of the global header.
How do you change from the default menu to a menu that you can select here?
Well, there is none to select, and so we can't change that yet.
But if we close out here, let's go ahead and look at what's over here under the second column and how
that has been moved up to be overlapping inside of this next section.
You might remember we looked at some overlapping section backgrounds in the last couple of sections
looking at the div part one section of the course.
And so let's take a look at it.
So it's a button module.
It's says get in touch.
There will be a link eventually that you could place to the contact page or something like that or however
you want to do that.
If you remember in leverage div scum.
I made that into a log in button over here and I also made it conditional so that if a person is logged
in, like right now, I'm logged in.
You can see the admin bar up here.
If you're logged in already, then that login button doesn't appear because it's not necessary.
And I'll show you about that right now.
The conditional power of divvy modules is really pretty awesome.
And so let's just take a look at two things how is overlapping into the section above and also how I
made it into a conditional element.
So let's just look at the design and the alignment is to the right.
You can see that this module itself is right aligned over to the very edge of its column.
If we put it to the middle, it would go there to the left over here.
But it's a nice design to have it way over to the right there and the design of the text.
The design of the button itself with the colour, etc. and the icon that it is being used.
The button icon is a right arrow.
You can see that comes through there.
The button icon colour is black, you know, and since it's a white button, it's probably going to
look better if we change that over to a white icon, I think, and it looks great.
And then under advanced a lot of the items here that will go over in later lessons in this section,
one of all those one of them is conditions.
And so just taking a look here, you can add a condition.
And because that was a log in button on the leverage device icon website, what I used for a condition
was the under user logged in status and I can say display only if user is logged in or if a user is
logged out.
And that's what I had had used in the other website display only if a user is logged out, otherwise,
it just will not display that module itself.
The button will just completely disappear if you're logged in.
And so that's a really powerful thing that you can do in DV, and I'll click the green checkbox to save
that because I changed the colour of the button icon and then I'll click Save right down here.
And the last thing, let's just look at how that's pulled up into the top there.
Do you think you can find that on your own before I show it to you?
I'll give you a second pause the video if you need to see if you can figure that out.
Well, I am going to go under design, and then if I look at spacing, I can see that there's a margin
set a top margin of negative 70 pixels and that's how it's done.
So the negative 70 gets it right, basically to the middle of the button.
You can use this slider right down here to change that.
But putting in a negative margin can easily get you the ability without any code to do a, you know,
kind of overlapping look right there.
Now, of course, using that slider, I can use these little buttons to to get it to where I want back
to the 70, right?
And then what happens when you scroll?
Let's look at leverage Devi again.
And in fact, how can I show you guys this when you scroll?
What happens is that call to action disappears, I believe.
In fact, let's go back and and let's just take a look at the layouts library.
Is that going to work?
No, that's not going to work, either.
So you know what I'll do.
This is a good thing to know about.
Also, you can go and open up.
A year, I'll make this a little bit smaller, moving in and you can in Chrome or Firefox, you can
go over here and you can open an incognito window and that will be a different window and your log in
sessions will not be will not be persistent there when you're, you know, between two browsers.
And so I go back to leverage Diwekar.
And when we look at the site here now that I'm not logged in in this incognito window, you can see
that the login button is there.
So what happens when you scroll that does something.
It gets rid of the negative margin and it puts it back inside of the sticky part of the menu there.
And that's something that you can't see without any content here when you're in the other editing window
because you can't really scroll as I scroll my wheel here.
There's nothing to scroll, so I can't see what happens.
But if I go back to sticky now, that shows me in this editor here what it would look like when it's
a sticky menu.
And of course, for this section, this button over here gets a zero top margin instead of the 70 pixel
negative margin on the top right there.
And if we look at this top section, you know, let me close this up.
Also, if you look back at the incognito window that I had open.
What happens here?
That top section, the black background top section totally disappears to make the area smaller and
let the content slide underneath.
And so to show you how that works, let's go back into the section settings for the top section here.
It might be advanced visibility and you might disable it went on scroll.
Or maybe it's a scroll effect.
Do not stick.
This so the sticky position for this section is do not stick for vertical motions, not we're not enabling
any vertical motion here.
So basically the sticky position is do not stick.
So if we have stick to top right here, then when we scroll, it'll stay instead of disappearing.
So that's how you do that.
We have that to do, not stick.
When the user scrolls.
And that's how that works in there.
So I'll just click any to save any changes here and we can close the X at the top right of that purple
editing bar and then make sure that if this doesn't say all changes saved, that you go ahead and click
that button to save your changes.
And then, of course, you can go back here and refresh the page to see that everything's working or
any of the changes that you made like this white button icon are still persistent there.